.TH RATFOR 1
.SH NAME
ratfor \- rational Fortran dialect
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ratfor
[
.I option ...
]
[
.I filename ...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.I Ratfor
converts a rational dialect of Fortran into ordinary irrational Fortran.
.I Ratfor
provides control flow constructs essentially identical to those in C:
.TP
\(bu Statement grouping:
.nf
{ statement; statement; statement }
.TP
\(bu Decision-making:
if (condition) statement [ else statement ]
.br
switch (integer value) {
	case integer:	statement
	...
	[ default: ]	statement
}
.TP
\(bu Loops:
while (condition) statement
for (expression; condition; expression) statement
do limits statement
repeat statement [ until (condition) ]
break
next
.LP
and some syntactic sugar to make programs easier to read and write:
.TP
\(bu Free form input:
multiple statements/line; automatic continuation
.TP
\(bu Comments:
# this is a comment
.TP
\(bu Translation of relationals:
>, >=, etc., become .GT., .GE., etc.
.TP
\(bu return (expression)
returns expression to caller from function
.TP
\(bu Define:
define name replacement
.TP
\(bu Include:
include filename
.PP
.fi
.I Ratfor
is best used with
.IR f77 (1).
.SH OPTIONS
.I Ratfor
supports the following options:
.TP
\fB\-c \fIN\fR[\fIc\fR]
Set the continuation column to
.IR N .
If supplied, set the continuation character to
.IR c .
.TP
.B \-C
Pass comments through to the generated Fortran.
.TP
.PD 0
.B \-f66
.TP
.PD
.B \-f77
Set the dialect of generated code to either Fortran 66 or Fortran 77.
The default is Fortan 66.
.TP
.B \-h
Use Hollerith notation for string constants.
.TP
.B \-u
Generate the code using UPPERCASE characters. The default is lowercase.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.IR efl (1), 
.IR f77 (1), 
.IR struct (1)
.br
B. W. Kernighan and P. J. Plauger,
.IR "Software Tools" ,
Addison-Wesley, 1976.
.SH BUGS
The program has a number of static limits which have not been
changed. The limits are those of the Vax version from the
Tenth Edition \s-1UNIX\s+1 system. While they are larger than
those of the PDP-11 version, they are still small by
current standards.
